Docker :- basically is a containerization platform where any code can we packed into a image and either host and share it to other user so . so no need to worry about sharing various code file and dependencies 


earlier we use VM :- in this it rely on kernal that's why it need high performance machine when we want to use multiple vm 
.it is comparatively slow also as container
.it support multiple os as well 

container :- it is light weight in nature because it run on os level not on kernal level and it esy to share also
.they use a technology called containerization, which allows them to share the host operating system's kernel and libraries, while still providing isolation for the application and its dependencies


steps:- you have code file that u want to deploy
. i have python code 
. i created a dockerfile of this code which contain 
    -i have written over python file or if u use diff os then you mentioned this also 
then the app folder that i'm using
i use copy command to copy all of my code file in docker
as well i use pip install to install all the dependencies of my python code

.so now in terminal move to project folder 
.build the image :- docker built -t image .
.test locally with the run command :- docker run then image name

now in cmd login to docker hub
.tag the image with the image name and username (docker tag image:latest aditya123/image:latest)
.push the image :- (docker push aditya123/image:latest)

now the image stored you can pull it anywhere


types of images:- two private and public 
after deploying the image then through the docker hub i can change the authority public or private 

or if you want to give some authority then u can  create an organanization in dockerhub then add member then they can access it 

alternatives :-

docker-compose :- Docker Compose is used to manage multiple containers together using a single YAML file. 
.we pass the path of all the files in yaml file and uses a docker file also
it run all the services at once

docker swarm :- Docker Swarm is Docker's native container orchestration tool used to manage containers across multiple servers.
the benfit over docker compose is it automatically create multiple container if any container fails
.user for small production applications


kubernates:- 
Kubernetes is an enterprise-grade container orchestration(done automatimation part like scaling , managing ) platform used to deploy, manage, scale, and automate containerized applications across clusters of servers.
.it uses pod instead of container which contain one or more container



Steps.:- build :- docker build -t image
.login to dockerhub through cmd
.tag that image :- because it is difficult to find the image that you want to push with same name so it tagged with username and image name
.push the image :- docker push username/image:latest
.verify it on dockerhub



#to pull on other machine
you have to pull and run 
.docker pull username/image:latest
.docker run username/image:latest



#when two image has same name then what does docker do is it overwrite the latest image and show the code of that image that is loaded at last
. to get overcame from this docker uses version type like v1 and v2 kind of things



docker client :- basically it is a command which is used to interact with docker ( docker run , docker build , etc )

docker daemon :- it is heart of docker all the docker iamges and registry executed.

dockerhub:- it a platform where user register there docker images so any user can pull it . it can be in the form of private or public images so need some permission if it is private . it is like GitHub but here you share your images instead of codebase.





