Ecs:- AWS ECS is a fully managed container orchestration service that allows you to run Docker containers at scale. It eliminates the need to manage your own container orchestration infrastructure and provides a highly scalable, reliable, and secure environment for deploying and managing your applications.

some popular alternative of ecs :-
.kubernates - costly as tough to setup
.dockerswarm - it is only used for small scale application

Clusters:
A cluster is a logical grouping of EC2 instances or Fargate tasks on which you run your containers. It acts as the foundation of ECS, where you can deploy your services.

Task Definitions:
Task Definitions define how your containers should run, including the Docker image to use, CPU and memory requirements, networking, and more. It is like a blueprint for your containers.

Tasks:
A task represents a single running instance of a task definition within a cluster. It could be a single container or multiple related containers that need to work together.

steps to achieve :-
Step 1: Create an ECS Cluster
Open AWS Console.
Search for ECS.
Click Create Cluster.
Enter cluster name.

step2:- create docker image
create image :- create docker file (notepad dockerfilename)
build image :-docker build -t ecr-ecs .
verify that image :- docker images

step3:- push image to ecr (docker image linked with ecr )
login to ecr :-aws ecr get-login-password --region us-east-1 | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin 422836431779.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com



tag image to ecr :- docker tag ecr-ecs:latest 422836431779.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/ecr-ecs:latest

push image to ecr :- docker push 422836431779.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/ecr-ecs:latest


now done with ecr move to task definition here you are integrating ecs cluster here 
Task Definition Name : task-ecs
Launch Type : Fargate
CPU : 1 vCPU
Memory : 2 GB
Image URI : ECR Image URI  (here ecr linked with ecs )
Port Mapping : 3000

now finally run ecs task :-
ecs -> cluster -> run new task

after this  it ecs it is showing running



##types
ec2 ecs :- you have to manage the ec2 instance 
ecs fargate :- aws will manage the servers

Create ECS Cluster
        ↓
Create Dockerfile
        ↓
Build Docker Image
        ↓
Push Image to ECR
        ↓
Create Task Definition
        ↓
Run ECS Task
        ↓
Task Status = Running
        ↓
Verify Logs
        ↓
Application Running






